Add documentation for query rules retriever (#115696)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/search/retriever.asciidoc

`filter`::
(Optional, <<query-dsl, query object or list of query objects>>)
+

> Applies a <<query-dsl-bool-query, boolean query filter>> to this retriever where all documents must match this query but do not contribute to the score.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applies a <<query-dsl-bool-query, boolean query filter>> to this retriever, where all documents must match this query but do not contribute to the score.
```

`sort`::
+

> (Optional, <<sort-search-results, sort object>>) A sort object that that specifies the order of matching documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, <<sort-search-results, sort object>>) A sort object that specifies the order of matching documents.
```

Looks like preexisting typo

** Refer to the <<text-similarity-reranker-retriever-example-eland,example>> on this page for a step-by-step guide.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[discrete]
[[text-similarity-reranker-retriever-parameters]]
```

This retriever uses a standard `match` query to search the `movie` index for films tagged with the genre "drama".
It then re-ranks the results based on semantic similarity to the text in the `inference_text` parameter, using the model we uploaded to {es}.

> [[rule-retriever]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[discrete]
[[rule-retriever]]
```

==== Query Rules Retriever

The `rule` retriever offers users fine-grained control over the search results by applying contextual <<query-rules>> to pin or exclude documents for specific queries.

> This retriever performs similar functionality to the <<query-dsl-rule-query>> but works out of the box with other retrievers including reranking retrievers like <<text-similarity-reranker-retriever, text_similarity_reranker>> and <<rrf-retriever, rrf>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This retriever has similar functionality to the <<query-dsl-rule-query>>, but works out of the box with other retrievers.
```

nit for brevity

Do we need `including reranking retrievers like <<text-similarity-reranker-retriever, text_similarity_reranker>> and <<rrf-retriever, rrf>>`?

===== Prerequisites

To use the `rule` retriever you must first create one or more query rulesets using the <<query-rules-apis, query rules management APIs>>.

===== Parameters

`retriever`::
(Required, <<retriever, retriever>>)
+
The child retriever that returns the results we will apply query rules on top of.
This can be a standalone retriever such as the <<standard-retriever, standard>> or <<knn-retriever, knn>> retriever, or it can be a compound retriever.

`ruleset_ids`::
(Required, `array`)
+

> An array of one or more unique <<query-rules-apis, query ruleset>> ID with query-based rules to match and apply as applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An array of one or more unique <<query-rules-apis, query ruleset>> IDs with query-based rules to match and apply as applicable.
```

Nesting a `rule` retriever as a sub-retriever under a reranker such as `rrf` or `text_similarity_reranker` may not produce the expected results.
====

[source,console]
----
GET movies/_search
{
  "retriever": {
    "rule": {
      "match_criteria": {
        "query_string": "harry potter"
      },
      "ruleset_ids": [
        "my-ruleset"
      ],
      "retriever": {
        "rrf": {
          "retrievers": [
            {
              "standard": {
                "query": {
                  "query_string": {
                    "query": "sorcerer's stone"
                  }
                }
              }
            },
            {
              "standard": {
                "query": {
                  "query_string": {
                    "query": "chamber of secrets"
                  }
                }
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

==== Using `from` and `size` with a retriever tree

The <<search-from-param, `from`>> and <<search-size-param, `size`>>
parameters are provided globally as part of the general
<<search-search, search API>>.

> They are applied to all retrievers in a retriever tree unless a specific retriever overrides the `size` parameter using a different parameter such as `rank_window_size`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are applied to all retrievers in a retriever tree, unless a specific retriever overrides the `size` parameter using a different parameter such as `rank_window_size`.
```

preexisting text

This retriever uses a standard `match` query to search the `movie` index for films tagged with the genre "drama".
It then re-ranks the results based on semantic similarity to the text in the `inference_text` parameter, using the model we uploaded to {es}.

[discrete]
[[rule-retriever]]
==== Query Rules Retriever

The `rule` retriever enables fine-grained control over search results by applying contextual <<query-rules>> to pin or exclude documents for specific queries.
This retriever has similar functionality to the <<query-dsl-rule-query>>, but works out of the box with other retrievers.

===== Prerequisites

To use the `rule` retriever you must first create one or more query rulesets using the <<query-rules-apis, query rules management APIs>>.

> ===== Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[discrete]
[[rule-retriever-parameters]]
===== Parameters
```
